# 2.1 Budget

The Budget model is the main container for storing categories. Besides categories, the Budget stores data about name, creation date and who the owner is.

## Budget model

Budget

-   id: integer (PK)
-   name: string (NOT NULL)
-   create_date: Date
-   owner_name: string

## Endpoints

-   GET /budget
-   GET /budget/<id>
-   GET /budget/<id>/<date>
-   POST /budget
-   DEL /budget/<id>

## Getting a budget / budgets

Endpoints are provided to get all budgets or a specific budget identified by it's ID. Requesting for a specific budget also provides the opportunity to specify a filterdate, that defines a threshold for which categories are included in the response. This allows for getting a snapshot of the budget at any given time. I.e. not getting updates in the february budget, when requesting for the january version.

Format of the date should be "YYYY-MM-DD" and should be a string.

Filtering will have effect on which categories are returned. This will be further detailed in section 2.2 Category.

... <route and error>

## Creating a budget

Creating the budget it is mandatory to provide a name. The create_date is set to the current date. The owner_name is left undefined, if not provided when creating.

Creating a budget is done via the POST /budgets route. If no name is given, an HTTP response with errorcode 404 is returned.

## Updating a budget

An edit of the budget can be in regards to the name or the owner name.

Editing the budget is done via the <ROUTE MISSING - SHOULD MAKE PUT route>

## Deleting a budget

**AWAITING CLARIFICATION**

-   **what happens to categories? What happens to transactions mapped to those categories?**
-   could just deleted budget, and let categories have an invalid FK reference to budget. This can be used to categories transactions, that needs attention/be recategorised.
-   Could delete categories, and leave transactions with an invalid FK relation to categories. This will leave the transactions as in need of attention but without information about earlier categorisation.
    -   if this approach is used, maybe categories should only be removed when there no longer is any transactions in DB, that relate to them?
-   Could delete both categories and transactions related to the budget. This is the most destructive approach, as we loose a lot of data.
-   Same approach as for categories could be used when deleting budgets. Marking it wit an 'end_of_life' attribute telling the system, that the budget has been deprecated without deleting any data, but just make the budget unavailable in the front end. This could still make it possible to filter transactions on those needing attention as their budget was "deleted", and still showing what category they used to be related to.
-   _I like the last approach the best._

Deleting a budget is done via the DEL /budgets/<id> route. Only by providing a valid id can a budget be deleted. If id is not valid, a HTTP response with errorcode 404 is returned.
