# 2.1 Category

Category is the main building block of a budget. A category describes a specific type of expense. At the same time it can have one or more children and a parent, giving the users the ability to create a hierarchy of categories describing expenses in a abstract or detailed manner. I.e. "Housing" > "Supplies" > "Electrical bills".

## Category model

Category

-   id: integer (PK)
-   budget_id: integer (FK)
-   name: string
-   amont: real
-   end_of_life: boolean
-   create_date: Date
-   prev_id?: integer FK unique
-   next_id?: integer FK unique
-   parent_id?: integer FK unique

### end_of_life

A boolean that defines wether or not a category has been terminated or not. A terminated category cannot have any new children (neither on last node or any previous versions) or any new versions.

## Endpoints

-   GET /category
-   GET /category/<id>
-   GET /category/<id>/<date>
-   POST /category
-   PUT /category/<id>
-   DELETE /category/<id>

## Getting a category / categories

Getting a one or more categories from db can be done in 1 of 3 ways. Without id, with id, with id and filterdate.

Sending a GET request without any additional information returns all categories in db.

Sending a GET request with an id returns one specific category.

Sending a GET request with an id and a filterdate, the returned category is the latest version of the category with the requested id. This means, that for a specific id, the db will look at the date and try to find the latest version category with a date <= to the filterdate. I.e. requesting for category with id 4 might return category with id 5, if category with id 4 had a next version with a date matching the filterdate criteria.

... <route and error>

## Creating a category

When creating a new category, a POST request is sent. It is mandatory to either provide a parent_id or a budget_id. If parent_id is provided, the category will become the child of this category, if the category is not marked as end_of_life (read more in the model section). If budget_id is provided without a parent_id, the category will become a root level child of the budget. Providing bother parent_id and budget_id will do the same as providing only parent_id, but it will be validated, that the parent also has a similar budget_id.

If an invalid parent_id, budget_id or combination of parent_id and budget_id is provided, the server will respond with a 404 error.

return value on success???

## Updating a category

Updating a category requires the id of the category to update. When the PUT request, a new category will be created with a prev_id equal to the id of the updated category. A PUT request thus never change the targeted category but add's a category to the db and links it to the target category. Only exception is, that the next_id of the targeted category will get the id of the new version category.

Sending the PUT request, it is not mandatory to provide a day, and if left empty it will be set to todays date. Providing a date will result in a filtering of the category's different versions, and if the provided date is less than the date of the latest version, a newly created category will be inserted between 2 category nodes, so versions will stay linked ordered by date. I.e. inserting a category with date 2/1 and the db holds both a category on 1/1 and 3/1, the new category will be inserted between so the link counts 1/1, 2/1 and 3/1. If the date provided coincide with a date, that already exist on a category, the new one will be inserted after the existing one. Both with same date.

Should one be interested in getting the insertion order/creation date of a given category and all it's versions, categories can be ordered by id.

... <route and error>

-   invalid id
-   invalid dateformat
-

Return on success?

## Deleting a category

...

... <route and error>
